{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff31507\deff0\stshfdbch31505\stshfloch31506\stshfhich31506\stshfbi31507\deflang2057\deflangfe2057\themelang2057\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}
{\f37\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0302020204030204}Calibri Light;}
{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}
{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f45\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f48\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f49\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f50\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f51\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f52\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f384\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Cambria Math CE;}{\f385\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Math Cyr;}
{\f387\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Math Greek;}{\f388\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Math Tur;}{\f391\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Math Baltic;}{\f392\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Cambria Math (Vietnamese);}
{\f414\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\f415\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\f417\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\f418\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\f419\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\f420\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\f421\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}{\f422\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}
{\flomajor\f31508\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31518\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31528\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri Light CE;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Light Cyr;}
{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Light Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Light Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31533\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri Light (Hebrew);}
{\fhimajor\f31534\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri Light (Arabic);}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Light Baltic;}{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri Light (Vietnamese);}
{\fbimajor\f31538\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\flominor\f31548\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31558\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\fhiminor\f31568\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Calibri CE;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}
{\fhiminor\f31573\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Calibri (Hebrew);}{\fhiminor\f31574\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Calibri (Arabic);}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31578\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}{\*\defchp \fs22\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505 }{\*\defpap 
\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang2057\langfe2057\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2057 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \sunhideused \spriority1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1
\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\lang2057\langfe2057\loch\f31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2057 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused 
Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid13632668\rsid14754418}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\operator ben}{\creatim\yr2018\mo11\dy22\hr11\min38}
{\revtim\yr2018\mo11\dy22\hr11\min38}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages41}{\nofwords14102}{\nofchars80385}{\nofcharsws94299}{\vern93}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale140\rsidroot14754418 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14754418 \rtlch\fcs1 \af31507\afs22\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs22\lang2057\langfe2057\loch\af31506\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp2057 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This is a summary of the concept of a dehydron:
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydron: A Structurally Encoded Signal for Protein Interaction
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2003\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{FERNANDEZ20031914,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = "Dehydron: A Structurally\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  Encoded Signal for Protein Interaction",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Biophysical Journal",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "85",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "3",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "1914 - 1928",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2003",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "0006-3495",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495(03)74619-0",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006349503746190",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez and Ridgway Scott",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = "We introduce a quantifiable structural motif, called dehydron, that\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 is shown to be central to protein-protein interactions. A dehydron is a defectively packed backbone hydrogen bond suggesting preformed monomeric structure whose Coulomb energy is highly sensitive to binding-induced water exclusion. Such preformed hydroge
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 bonds are effectively adhesive, since water removal from their vicinity contributes to their stability. At the structural level, a significant correlation is established between dehydrons and sites for protein complexation, with the HIV-1 capsid protein 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 P\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
24 complexed with antibody light-chain FAB25.3 providing the most dramatic correlation. Furthermore, the number of dehydrons in homologous similar-fold proteins from different species is shown to be a signature of proteomic complexity. The techniques are 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
hen applied to higher levels of organization: The formation of the capsid and its organization in picornaviruses correlates strongly with the distribution of dehydrons on the rim of the virus unit. Furthermore, antibody contacts and crystal contacts may b
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 assigned to dehydrons still prevalent after the capsid has been assembled. The implications of the dehydron as an encoded signal in proteomics, bioinformatics, and inhibitor drug design are emphasized."
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "We introduce a quantifiable structural motif, ca\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 lled dehydron, that is shown to be central to protein-protein interactions. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A dehydron is a defectively packed backbone hydrogen bond suggesting preformed monomeric structure whose Coulomb energy is 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 highly sensitive to binding-induced water exclusion. 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Such preformed hydrogen bonds are effectively adhesive, since water removal from their vicinity contributes to their stability. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 At the structural level, a significant correlation is established between dehydrons and sites for protein complexation, with th\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e HIV-1 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 capsid protein P24 complexed with antibody light-chain FAB25.3 providing the most dramatic correlation. 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Furthermore, the number of dehydrons in homologous similar-fold proteins from different species is shown to be a signature of proteomic compl\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 exity. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The techniques are then applied to higher levels of organization: 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The formation of the capsid and its organization in picornaviruses correlates strongly with the distribution of dehydrons on the rim of the virus unit. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Furthermore, antibody contac\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ts and crystal contacts may be assigned to dehydrons still prevalent after the capsid has been assembled. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The implications of the dehydron as an encoded signal in proteomics, bioinformatics, and inhibitor drug design are emphasized."
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "We then proceed to i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
dentify the defectively packed backbone hydrogen bonds of the monomeric state where water exclusion upon binding would bring about the most significant decrease in Coulomb energy. Such bonds are here named dehydrons. To benchmark our method, we have utili
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 z\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ed the full spectrum of proteomic data available, including annotations on the interactive context of proteins, structurally encoded propensities for aggregation and rearrangement, molecular evolution data, complexation, and supramolecular organization. T
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 begin with, the dehydrons of two soluble proteins representing extreme examples of near-perfect and highly defective packing are determined and their relation to their interactive context is established. Then, dehydron sites are contrasted with the bindi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
g interfaces in 23 highly diverse protein complexes. In 18 cases, a strong correlation has been found, with the strongest correlation associated with the HIV-1 capsid protein P24 complexed with antibody light chain FAB25.3 (Momany et al., 1996).
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The exten\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t of incompleteness in the desolvation or hydrophobic wrapping of a preformed hydrogen bond determines a field acting on a test hydrophobe 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 ndez et al., 2002b; Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez and Berry, 2002): a hydrophobe is dragged toward a dehydron because, 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in approaching it, it causes a decrease in the local dielectric coefficient, thus enhancing the electrostatics of the hydrogen bond. 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 This \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 field\'94\loch\f31506  contributes critically to determine the binding sites of proteins, as shown in the second part of the paper.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
The number of dehydrons of a given protein may be also used as a marker of the complexity of its interactive context in different organisms: in homologous similar-fold proteins, the number of dehydrons appears to be a signature of proteomic complexity acr
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 oss species, as revealed by our results.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Finally, we analyze higher levels of structural organization. Thus, we show that the formation of the capsid in picornaviruses is essentially determined by the distribution of dehydrons in the individual virus-pept
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ide (VP) subunits. This distribution concentrates at the symmetry centers of the capsid and edge-to-edge subunit positioning. Furthermore, antibody contacts and crystal contacts may be readily attributed to dehydrons still prevalent after the capsid has b
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 en assembled.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The implications of the dehydron concept for information processing in bioinformatics and proteomics and its possible impact for inhibitor design become readily apparent, as emphasized at the end of this work."

\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "Discussion
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This work identif\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ies a factor for protein association and supramolecular organization by determining a structurally encoded marker, the dehydron, which signals a packing defect in the monomeric structure. This signal becomes a means to systematically locate the spots on t
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 h\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
e surface of preformed protein structure that are most sensitive to perturbations in the solvent environment, specifically to the exogenous removal of water. The dehydron represents a defectively packed and preformed backbone hydrogen bond such that furth
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r water removal from its surroundings has a significant bond-stabilizing effect.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons are identified by quantifying the sensitivity of Coulomb energetic contributions to the externally induced exclusion of water. This sensitivity can be conveniently \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
regarded as measuring the drag on an external hydrophobic group. The relative abundance of native backbone hydrogen bonds grouped according to their sensitivities is sharply bimodal: native hydrogen bonds in monomeric structure are either highly sensitive
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
or nearly insensitive. This important fact is at the crux of the site-selectivity of protein interactions and provides a solid justification for their rationalization in terms of dehydrons. Thus, a systematic study of known structures of individual protei
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
s, protein complexes, and virus coats leads us to establish that the structural defects related to dehydrons play a significant role in determining protein associations and the organization of supramolecular assemblies.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 To obtain a complete picture of pro\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
tein interactions, the dehydron contribution should be complemented with the usual assessments of in situ geometric hindrances or fittings and pairwise matches. Furthermore, in an effort to clarify the dynamic functioning of dehydrons, we are now performi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 g all-atom MD simulations with explicit solvent to examine the interactions of a hydrophobic test particle with the surface of the protein.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Since the dehydron is adhesive, it could become a useful concept to develop models of supramolecular organization o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
f proteins within large-scale assemblies. For example, such models could be used together with data stemming from electron cryomicroscopy (Zhou et al., 1998) to infer and model virus organization and virus-host interactions (Zhou et al., 2000, Zhou et al.
,\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  2001).
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
The potential use of dehydrons in functional genomics and proteomics has been to some extent assessed in this work. The number of dehydrons for homologous proteins with identical fold and function across species with diverse levels of evolutionary
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  ancestry have been shown to provide a good marker for the proteomic complexity of the species. These findings suggest that the notion of function might need to be cast in terms of systems biology concepts.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Finally, inhibitor drug design benefits from the\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 identification of suitable target regions on protein surfaces. Thus, adhesive spots arising from packing defects in the form of dehydrons are obvious sites to focus on."
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydron Analysis: Quantifying the Effect of Hydrophobic Groups on the Strength an\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d Stability of Hydrogen Bonds
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fraser2010\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @InProceedings\{10.1007/978-1-4419-5913-3_53,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 author="Fraser, Christopher M.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and Fern\{\\'a\}ndez, Ariel
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and Scott, L. Ridgway",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 editor="Arabnia, Hamid R.",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title="Dehydron Analysis: Quantifying the Effect of Hydrophobic Groups on the Strength and Stability of Hydrogen Bonds",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 booktitle="Advances in Computational Biology",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year="2010",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 publisher="Springer New York",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 address="New York, NY",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages="473--479",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ab\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
stract="In the past decade, research has demonstrated that defectively packed hydrogen bonds, or ``dehydrons,'' play an important role in protein-ligand interactions and a host of other biochemical phenomena. These results are due in large part to the dev
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
lopment of computational techniques to identify and analyze the hydrophobic microenvironments surrounding hydrogen bonds in protein structures. Here, we provide an introduction to the dehydron and the computational techniques that have been used to uncove
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 its biological and biomedical significance. We then illustrate how dehydron-based computational analysis can be used as a basis for reengineering pharmaceutical compounds to improve their binding specificities.",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 isbn="978-1-4419-5913-3"
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "In the past d\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 ecade, research has demonstrated that defectively packed hydrogen bonds, or \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 dehydrons,\'94\loch\f31506 
 play an important role in protein-ligand interactions and a host of other biochemical phenomena. These results are due in large part to the development of computation\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
l techniques to identify and analyze the hydrophobic microenvironments surrounding hydrogen bonds in protein structures. Here, we provide an introduction to the dehydron and the computational techniques that have been used to uncover its biological and bi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
medical significance. We then illustrate how dehydron-based computational analysis can be used as a basis for reengineering pharmaceutical compounds to improve their binding specificities."
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 WRAPPA: A Screening Tool for Candidate
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydron Identification
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fraser\}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 "Abstract Solvent-exposed hydrogen bonds, or \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 dehydrons,\'94\loch\f31506  are becoming an increasingly
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 important biochemical motif. The dehydron plays an important role in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a wide variety of biological phenomena and has served as the basis for redesigning
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the anti\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 cancer agent imatinib to reduce its side effects. The rapid and reliable
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 identification of dehydrons in proteins is thus becoming increasingly relevant to the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 community of life scientists at large. In this report we present a web-based program,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 called WRAP\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 PA (www.wrappa.org), that allows biologists to incorporate dehydron
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 analysis into their own research. WRAPPA is a tool for hypothesis generation and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 refinement: It locates hydrogen bonds in protein structures using simple geometric
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 criteria and provides de\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tailed molecular information about the local microenvironment
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 of each bond, thereby identifying \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 candidate\'94\loch\f31506  dehydrons for experimental
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 investigation"
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "In this
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 report, we use the term \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 wrapping\'94\loch\f31506  to describe the degree of hydrophobic packing
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 of a hydrogen bond, and the term \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 under-wrapped hydrogen bond,\'94\loch\f31506  or UWHB, to
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 denote a hydrogen bond surrounded by relatively few hydrophobic groups."
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "Computation has been imp\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ortant to uncovering the biological significance of the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydron. A wide array of in silico techniques have been used to guide experimental
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 work in recent years, ranging from simple molecular viewers [17] to fullscale
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 molecular dynamics (MD) simulations [2\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 2, 23, 24, 46, 55, 56]. The study of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the dehydron, in turn, is beginning to influence the development of bioinformatics
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 software. For instance, the concept of \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 packing distance\'94\loch\f31506  (the difference in dehydron
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 distributions between two proteins) has been intro\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 duced as a new measure of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 functional similarity [30, 53, 61]. Computational dehydron analysis has also been
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 integrated into docking software [70] and protein conformational prediction software
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 [73, 110]. The dehydron thus illustrates how computational and \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 experimental
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 techniques can be used together to refine hypotheses and accelerate the discovery
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 process in the life sciences.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In the first part of this report, we present the fundamental ideas behind the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydron and discuss the computational approaches to \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 identifying and analyzing
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 UWHBs. We begin by outlining a simple data-analytic method for identifying candidate
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 dehydrons (where the term \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 candidate\'94\loch\f31506  is used to differentiate between bonds
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 identified via the analysis of Protein Data Bank (PDB) files from bo\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 nds whose thermodynamic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 properties have been experimentally confirmed). This is followed by
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a review of the evidence for the dehydron\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 s adhesive capacity, or \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 stickiness.\'94\loch\f31506  We
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 then discuss experimental work guided by computational approaches, exploring the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydron\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 s biological and biotechnological significance. The material in these sections
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is intended to expand upon the brief review found in [66], and give the reader
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a clear overview of dehydron analysis in general.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The remaining sections of the report are devoted to the Web-based Residue Analysis
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 Program for hydroPhobicity Assessment, or \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 WRAPPA\'94\loch\f31506 . We begin with a general
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 discussion of computing in the life sciences an\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d touch upon the philosophy behind
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 WRAPPA. Following this section, we review the WRAPPA analytical code, its
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 web-based user interface, and the output WRAPPA produces. Two WRAPPA-based
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 analyses follow: (1) an overview of wrapping distributions for a structu\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rally nonredundant
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 subset of Protein Databank (PDB) files, and (2) a method for identifying
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (candidate) dehydron-rich proteins. The report is intended to serve as reference for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 WRAPPA users, and will be updated periodically."
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "2.4 The Biochemical Signific\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ance of the Dehydron
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A detailed discussion of all biological research on the dehydron is beyond the scope
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 of this text. This section is therefore intended only as a brief overview, with an
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 emphasis on the papers that first established the dehydron\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 s import\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ance as a biochemical
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 motif. Much of the work described here and in the following section was
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 guided by in silico analyses, with the simple counting method described in Section
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 2.1 proving itself to be quite effective.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 WRAPPA 9
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Research conducted over the \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 past decade has revealed a diversity of biological
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 roles for the dehydron [31, 33, 34, 37, 40, 41, 42, 44, 47, 48, 49, 51, 57, 59, 60,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 62, 87, 90]. Prominent among these is the substantial effect that dehydrons can have
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on protein-protein interactions and \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein-ligand binding [33, 42, 47, 57, 59, 62,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 87]. Interestingly, dehydrons appear to be under selective pressure; dehydrons in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 functioning homologous proteins tend to be conserved, and mutations that result in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pathological conditions tend to be associat\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ed with a loss of dehydrons [33, 42, 62,
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 87]. (The E6V sickle-cell mutation in the hemoglobin \'e2\loch\f31571  subunit is an example of this
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 latter phenomenon [59, 62]). The relevance of the dehydron to population genetics
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 has also come to light [45, 52], with significant implications for the mechanisms
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 underlying genetic drift [52].
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The importance of the dehydron is underscored by the correlation of pathological
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein-protein interactions with the over-expression of prote\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ins that harbor
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 many dehydrons [41, 44, 51, 57]. This amyloidogenic propensity is particularly
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pronounced for the human cellular prion protein, with the mutational introduction
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 of dehydrons contributing to the destabilization of the normal cellular form
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 [4\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 0, 41, 51, 57, 59]. Short protein fragments endowed with fibrillogenic potential
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (see [9], [32], [74], [76], and [92]) have also been shown to underlie a localization
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 or concentration of amyloid-related structural defects [37, 51, 57].
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons can have a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  significant morphological impact on biological membranes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 as well. This was demonstrated in [60] by in vitro experimental work on
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 cytochrome c, pyruvate dehydrogenase, and other membrane-bound proteins. The
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 data in [60] show that exposing lipid bilayers to\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  proteins with many dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 causes an exponential growth in surface area followed by a stabilization of the invaginated
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 state of the membrane. That is, a greater surface area (more invaginations)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is associated with a higher number of dehydrons in membran\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e-bound proteins [60].
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 These results have clear implications for membrane synthesis and function in cellular
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 organelles such as mitochondria.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Finally, it has been discovered that when dehydrons are strategically engineered
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 into synthetic peptides they help\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  to enable the peptides to translocate cell membranes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 [34, 48, 49, 90]. Still an active area of research, these \'93\loch\f31506 conformational
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 switches\'94\loch\f31506  can function as amphiphilic passive transport systems with potential applications
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to drug delivery. All of these examp\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 les suggest that the scope of the dehydron
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 as a biochemical motif is only beginning to be understood."
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Turning promiscuous kinase inhibitors into safer drugs
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Zhang2008\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{ZHANG2008295,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = "Turning promiscuous kinase inhibitors into safer drugs",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Trends in Biotechnology",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "26",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "6",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "295 - 301",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2008",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "0167-7799",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibtech.2008.02.008",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http:/\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 /www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167779908000851",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Xi Zhang and Alejandro Crespo and Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = "Burgeoning interest in multi-target drugs to treat complex diseases and malignancies has motivated a reassessment of th\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
e therapeutic value of promiscuity. Although drug efficacy might not correlate with specificity, it would be risky to welcome promiscuous compounds without a rational strategy to control therapeutic impact. This situation might change as novel selectivity
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
filters are incorporated into drug design. For example, cardiotoxic side effects of the cancer drug imatinib might be curbed by applying such premises. Here, we survey approaches to control the therapeutic impact of cross-reactive kinase inhibitors and ad
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 v\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ocate the application of a novel selectivity filter by illustrating its cleaning efficacy. Finally, we evaluate the possibility of turning multi-target kinase inhibitors into clinical opportunities through judicious chemical modifications."
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "Burgeoning \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
interest in multi-target drugs to treat complex diseases and malignancies has motivated a reassessment of the therapeutic value of promiscuity. Although drug efficacy might not correlate with specificity, it would be risky to welcome promiscuous compounds
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
without a rational strategy to control therapeutic impact. This situation might change as novel selectivity filters are incorporated into drug design. For example, cardiotoxic side effects of the cancer drug imatinib might be curbed by applying such premi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
es. Here, we survey approaches to control the therapeutic impact of cross-reactive kinase inhibitors and advocate the application of a novel selectivity filter by illustrating its cleaning efficacy. Finally, we evaluate the possibility of turning multi-ta
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 get kinase inhibitors into clinical opportunities through judicious chemical modifications.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A selectivity filter of broad application arises from comparison of the so-called \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 wrapping patterns\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 
 of protein targets [31]. By wrapping, we mean the intramole\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
cular protection of backbone hydrogen bonds from the hydration of amide and carbonyl groups, a competing process that, when extensive, might lead to unfolding 35, 36, 37, 38. Thus, wrapping defects are actually solvent-exposed hydrogen bonds and constitut
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 vulnerabilities arising from imperfections in side-chain packing. These structural singularities are called dehydrons and are identified in a straightforward way from structural coordinates 31, 35, 36, 37, 38 (Box 1, Figure I). The wrapping pattern is th
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s determined by identifying all dehydrons in the structure. A hydrogen bond is thus wrapped completely when all surrounding water has been excluded.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Box 1
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons are a special class of packing defects in soluble proteins consisting of backbon\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
e hydrogen bonds partially exposed to water due to an insufficient number of side-chain nonpolar groups clustered around them. These bonds are incompletely buried because they are \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 wrapped\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 
 poorly by side chains 35, 37. These defects constitute structural\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
vulnerabilities because they open up the possibility that the partially exposed backbone might become fully hydrated, thus leading to the dismantling of the folded structure. Dehydrons promote further water expulsion from their environment because the und
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
rlying amide-carbonyl electrostatic interaction becomes enhanced and stabilized by the approach of a hydrophobic group that causes water removal [37]. Thus, because of their propensity to attract nonpolar groups, dehydrons are sticky and, hence, targetabl
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 by drugs that contain such nonpolar groups [31]. The distribution of dehydrons on the protein structure is not conserved across paralogs [36], therefore, a drug redesign geared at wrapping nonconserved dehydrons might become a powerful approach to achiev
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  specificity [31].
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 The identification of dehydrons from structural coordinates is straightforward: It suffices to count the number of nonpolar side-chain groups, 
\'f1\loch\f31571 , within the microenvironment of each hydrogen bond to determine which of them are packed im\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 
perfectly. The microenvironment is defined as two intersecting balls (Figure I) of fixed radius centered at the \'e1\loch\f31571 
-carbons of the residues paired by the bond. In folds of soluble proteins, at least two-thirds of the backbone hydrogen bonds are wrapped on a\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 v\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 erage by \'f1
\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  = 26.6 \'b1\loch\f31571  7.5 nonpolar groups for radius of 6.2 }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \loch\af31506\dbch\af31505\hich\f31506 \'c5\loch\f31506 
. Thus, dehydrons are defined rigorously as hydrogen bonds whose extent of wrapping lies in the tail of the distribution (mean minus one dispersion), that is, with 19 or fewer hydrophobic groups in\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 their microenvironments.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
A shortcoming in identifying dehydrons arises from the need for structural information. However, comparing the wrapping pattern of paralogs is feasible, even in the absence of structure. A surrogate for dehydrons, the propensity 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
for structural disorder, might be used to infer the wrapping patterns that can be aligned subsequently using homology threading [31]. Thus, a sequence-based disorder score, measuring the propensity for inherent disorder in a peptide chain [36] correlates 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 w\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ith the wrapping of hydrogen-bonded residues, with dehydrons belonging to the twilight region between order and disorder [38].
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
The wrapping pattern might be turned into an operational selectivity filter for two reasons: (i) dehydrons might be targeted by drugs that further wrap them by bringing nonpolar groups to their proximity on association; and (ii) dehydrons are not conserve
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 across paralogs 31, 36. To assess conservation, we can align the paralog structures and compare the microenvironments of the aligned hydrogen bonds. Typically, although the bonds are conserved across paralogs, their packing is not and, hence, there are d
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 fferences in the dehydron distribution 31, 36. Structure conservation across proteins within kinase families enables the alignment [31].
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Thus, differences in dehydron distribution constitute promising selectivity filters to clean promiscuous inhibitors. T\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
o this effect, we hereby propose designing inhibitors with the aim of wrapping nonconserved dehydrons exogenously by bringing nonpolar groups into their proximity.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This proof of principle reveals that dehydrons are indeed features that could be exploited \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
to direct the redesign of promiscuous inhibitors with the goal of enhancing their specificity.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 We thus suggest a general strategy to clean promiscuous inhibitors by introducing \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 wrapping\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 
 chemical modifications that preserve the drug chemotype [16], while\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 targeting unique dehydrons. The proof of principle described in this section serves as a first validation for this approach. However, although imatinib is certainly cross reactive, it is not a promiscuous drug. Hence, the extension of the wrapping-redesi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 g\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n strategy to clean a truly promiscuous drug requires further consideration, as discussed in the next section.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o promote selectivity, we can introduce a wrapping modification to target a non-conserved dehydron in the primary target EGFR. A comparative stru\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ctural analysis of the EGFR family reveals that the least conserved EGFR dehydron is Asp831\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
Gly833. To wrap this dehydron, we might append a methyl group at position 3 of the terminal benzene ring (Figure 2b). This dehydron-wrapping modification is likely\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
to possess inhibitory activity exclusively against these EGFR paralogs that retain the dehydron in its original position, namely EGFR, Aurora2 [serine/threonine-protein kinase (STK)6], CDC-like kinase 3 (CLK3), v-erb-b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncog
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ne homolog 2 (ERBB2), pim-1 oncogene (PIM1), proviral integration site 2 (PIM2), protein tyrosine kinase 2 [PTK2; also known as focal adhesion kinase (FAK)], STE20-like kinase (SLK) and STK10. The modified drug is expected to bind to a subset of this targ
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t group because steric hindrances might arise as a result of the chemical medication.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Incomplete Protein Packing as a Selectivity Filter in Drug Design
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2005\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{FERNANDEZ20051829,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = "Incomplete Protein Packing as a Selectivity Fil\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ter in Drug Design",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Structure",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "13",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "12",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "1829 - 1836",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2005",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "0969-2126",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.str.2005.08.018",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0969212605003618\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = "Summary
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The conservation of structure across paralog proteins promotes alternative protein-ligand associations often leading to side effects in drug-based inhibition. However, sticky packing defects are typically 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
not conserved across paralogs, making them suitable targets to reduce drug toxicity. This observation enables a strategy for the design of highly specific inhibitors involving ligands that wrap nonconserved packing defects. The selectivity of these inhibi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ors is evidenced in affinity assays on a cancer-related pharmacokinome: a powerful inhibitor is redesigned by using the wrapping technology to enhance its selectivity and affinity for a target kinase. In this way, the packing defects of a soluble protein 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 m\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ay be used as selectivity filters for drug design."
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 One such factor has been recently identified. We have reported (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 ndez, 2004, Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 ndez and Berry, 2004, Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
ndez and Scheraga, 2003) that packing defects in proteins, the so-called dehydrons (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez and Berry, 2004, Deremble and Lavery, 2005), or \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
nderwrapped hydrogen bonds, constitute sticky sites with a propensity to become dehydrated. The term \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 wrapping\'94\loch\f31506 
 indicates a clustering of nonpolar groups framing an anhydrous microenvironment. Dehydrons are signaled by insufficient intramolecular wrappers\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
and promote protein-ligand associations that \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 correct\'94\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506  packing defects (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 
ndez and Scheraga, 2003, Deremble and Lavery, 2005). Their stickiness arises from the charge-screening reduction resulting from bringing nonpolar groups into proximity: water exc\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 l
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
usion enhances and stabilizes preformed electrostatic interactions. A few (<7) nonpolar groups wrapping a hydrogen bond simply prevent the hydration of the amide and carbonyl, but a sufficient number of wrappers, while making hydration thermodynamically c
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 stly, introduce a compensation by enhancing the stability of the hydrogen bond (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez and Scott, 2003).
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 We start by showing that in most PDB protein-inhibitor complexes, the ligand is in effect a wrapper of packing defects in the protein, although it \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
was not purposely designed to fulfill this role. In this way, the design concept of ligand as a dehydron wrapper is supported by reexamination of structural data. These preliminary data pave the way to introduce a wrapping technology in drug design. A pro
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
f of principle is provided by demonstrating experimentally that targeting dehydrons that are not conserved across paralogs becomes a useful strategy to enhance binding selectivity. Thus, we take advantage of packing differences to selectively modify a pow
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rful multiple-target inhibitor to achieve a higher specificity toward a particular target.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Results
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Ligands as Dehydron Wrappers in Protein-Inhibitor Complexes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The interfaces of the 814 protein-inhibitor PDB complexes were reexamined to determine whether i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 nhibitors were \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 dehydron wrappers,\'94
\loch\f31506  that is, whether nonpolar groups of inhibitors penetrated the desolvation domain of dehydrons. This feature was found in 631 complexes, and it was invariably found in the 488 complexes in which the binding cavity presen
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ed average or no surface hydrophobicity. This situation is illustrated in Figure 1, Figure 2 for the HIV-1 protease (Wlodawer and Vondrasek, 1998, Munshi et al., 1998) and the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (Katz et al., 2000), respectively. The inh
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
bitor contribution to improve the protein packing is not fortuitous since the substrate must be anchored and water must be expelled from the enzymatic site. Strikingly, the wrapping of dehydrons is not purposely attempted in current drug design.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "The Merc\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
k inhibitor Indinavir (Crixivan) bound to the functionally dimeric HIV-1 protease (PDB: 2BPX) is shown in Figure 1 (Wlodawer and Vondrasek, 1998, Munshi et al., 1998). The dehydrons in the protease are marked in green. On each monomer, these dehydrons are
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
backbone hydrogen bonds involving the following residue pairs: Ala28-Arg87, Asp29-Asn88, Gly49-Gly52, and Gly16-Gln18. The cavity associated with substrate binding contains the first three dehydrons, with dehydrons 49\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
52 located in the flap and dehydrons \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 2\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 8\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 87 and 29\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
88 positioned next to the catalytic site (Asp25), to anchor the substrate. This \'93\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 sticky track\'94\loch\f31506  determined by dehydrons 28\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 87 and 29\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
88 is required to align the substrate peptide across the cavity, as needed for nucleophilic attack by the Asp25\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
. The flap, on the other hand, must have an exposed and hence labile hydrogen bond needed to confer the flexibility associated with the gating mechanism. The lack of protection on the flap (49\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
52) hydrogen bond becomes the reason for its stickiness, as th\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 bond can be strengthened by the exogenous removal of surrounding water. The positioning of all three dehydrons in the cavity (six in the dimer) promotes inhibitor association.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Indinavir is a wrapper of packing defects in the enzymatic cavity: it contribu\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tes 12 desolvating groups to the 49\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 52 hydrogen bond, 10 to the 28
\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 87 hydrogen bond, and 8 to the 29\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 88 hydrogen bond. All functionally relevant residues are either polar or expose the polarity of the peptide backbone (Asp25, Thr26, Gly27, Ala28, Asp29, A
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
g87, Asn88, Gly49, Gly52), and, thus, they are not themselves promoters of protein-ligand association. The strategic position of dehydrons involving these residues in their microenvironments becomes a decisive factor in promoting water removal or charge d
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 screening required in facilitating the enzymatic nucleophilic attack.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Figure 2 shows an inhibitor acting as a wrapper of packing defects in its complexation with the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (PDB: 1C5W), a protease associated with tumor metast
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
asis and invasion (Katz et al., 2000). Figures 2A and 2B reveal dehydrons Cys191-Asp194, Asp194-Gly197, and Gln192-Lys143 in the protein cavity. Strikingly, none of the hydrophobic residues in the cavity contributes to the inhibitor binding (Figure 2C).

\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 N\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 onconserved Packing Defects as Highly Specific Targets
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Central to drug design is the minimization of toxic side effects. Because paralog proteins are likely to share common domain structures (Mount, 2001), the possibility of multiple binding partners for a
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
 given protein inhibitor arises, unless nonconserved features are specifically targeted. This problem may be circumvented by targeting dehydrons, because, in contrast to the fold, the wrapping is generally not conserved (Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 
ndez and Berry, 2004).
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 To det\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ermine whether dehydron targeting is likely to reduce side effects, we first investigated the extent of the conservation of dehydrons across human paralogs in the PDB. The paralogs for every crystallized protein-inhibitor complex were identified, and dehy
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ron patterns at binding cavities were compared. A 30% minimal sequence alignment was required for paralog identification. Packing defects were found to be a differentiating marker in paralogs of 527 out of the investigated 631 proteins crystallized in com
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 p\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 lex with inhibitors. A protein chain is often reported in complexes with different inhibitors.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The PDB contains 440 redundancy-free pairs of human paralogs. Of these, 308 involve some of the 527 proteins containing binding dehydrons. In 269 pairs, the int\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ramolecular wrapping at the binding cavity differs in the location or presence of at least 1 dehydron, and, in 203 pairs, the difference extends to 2 or more dehydrons. Thus, the probability of avoiding cross reactivity by selectively wrapping packing def
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 cts is estimated at 88% (269 pairs out of 308).
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 For instance, \'e1\loch\f31571 
-thrombin (PDB: 1A3E) (Zdanov et al., 1993), a paralog of the plasminogen activator (PDB: 1C5W), shares a common domain structure, but a different dehydron pattern (Figure 3). While the inhibi\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 tor of the 
\'e1\loch\f31571 
-thrombin is a wrapper of cavity dehydrons (Figure 3), additional specificity would have been gained if the inhibitor had been tailored to target the unique dehydron pattern of the cavity (compare Figures 2A and 3). Specifically, the Ser195-Gl
\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 y\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 197 dehydron present in \'e1\loch\f31571 -thrombin becomes intramolecularly well-wrapped in the plasminogen activator (Figures 2A and 3)."
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "we may conclude that dehydrons in cavities are suitable targets for ligand design"
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Water promotes the sealing of nanoscale packi\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ng defects in folding proteins
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2014\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez1,2
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Published 25 April 2014 \bullet \hich\f31506  \'a9\loch\f31506  2014 IOP Publishing Ltd
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter, Volume 26, Number 20
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 "Abstract
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
A net dipole moment is shown to arise from a non-Debye component of water polarization created by nanoscale packing defects on the protein surface. Accordingly, the protein electrostatic field exerts a torque on the induced dipole, locally impeding the nu
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 c\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 leation of ice at the protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
water interface. We evaluate the solvent orientation steering (SOS) as the reversible work needed to align the induced dipoles with the Debye electrostatic field and computed the SOS for the variable interface of a folding pr
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
tein. The minimization of the SOS is shown to drive protein folding as evidenced by the entrainment of the total free energy by the SOS energy along trajectories that approach a Debye limit state where no torque arises. This result suggests that the minim
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
zation of anomalous water polarization at the interface promotes the sealing of packing defects, thereby maintaining structural integrity and committing the protein chain to fold."
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The propagation of the distortion of water structure caused by a sub-nanom\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
eter cavity on the protein surface and the induced dipole moment arising from the resulting curvature change in phiv are shown in figure 1(a). The illustrative case corresponds to a water-exposed backbone hydrogen bond, a packing defect known as dehydron 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 [\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 11]. Due to the confinement of water in the nanoscale cavity of the dehydron, a P#-component is generated [11]. Dehydrons expose the backbone polar groups amide (>N
\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 H) and carbonyl (>C = O) to hydrogen bonding with the surrounding water molecules, in comp\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tition with the intramolecular amide\hich\f31506 
\endash \loch\f31506 carbonyl hydrogen bond, thus steering water dipoles away from alignment with E. The confined water molecules relinquish hydrogen bonding opportunities to fit in the nanoscale cavity, departing from the bulk coordinatio
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 pattern, with a resulting polarization that becomes statistically independent of E. The propagation in the disruption of the water structure is computed using the molecular dynamics protocol described in [7] for a dehydron cavity of typical curvature rad
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 us \'e8\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  = 2.63\u8201\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 
\loch\af31506\dbch\af31505\hich\f31506 \'c5\loch\f31506  [12], with x = 0 indicating the center of curvature at the dehydron location.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 Figure 1. (a) Confinement-induced dipole \'ec\loch\f31571 
# and torque thetav imposed on it by the Debye field F|| of the protein. The Debye field is locally generated by the dip}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ole moment of a preformed dehydron (packing defect) pairing an amide (>N\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
H) and a carbonyl (>C = O) group of the protein backbone. The dipole moment induced by water confinement at the dehydron site is generated by the change in curvature of the water-str\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 cture descriptor phiv. The figure shows the quantitative behavior of phiv = phiv(x) relative to the distance x to the dehydron interface with fixed curvature radius 
\'e8\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  = 2.63\u8201\'3f}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \loch\af31506\dbch\af31505\hich\f31506 \'c5\loch\f31506  (dashed circle) with x = 0 representing the center of curvature. (b) Correlation}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  between the SOS potential energy \'c4\loch\f31571 
U# (normalized by solvent-accessible surface area) and the dehydron-to-backbone-hydrogen-bond ratio Y for the protein given as percentage. The proteins studied identified by their respective PDB files and ordered by incr
\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 e}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
asing Y-value are 1SRL, 1ESR, 1A8O, 1PIT, 1QGB, 1ATA, 1Q7I, 2PNE. The protein dehydrons are identified from structural coordinates as described in [13]. 3. Results
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 A correlation is observed for PDB-reported proteins (\'ad\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 figure 1(b)) between the \'c4\loch\f31571 U# (normaliz}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ed by solvent-accessible surface area) of a protein and its dehydron ratio Y, defined as the fraction of backbone hydrogen bonds that are dehydrons (water-exposed). The correlation validates the assertion that dehydrons are the promoters of anomalous pola
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ization. The dataset includes the protein with the maximum dehydron ratio Y = 100%: the antifreeze protein from snow flea from PDB entry 2PNE [13]. The huge net torque exerted on the interfacial water molecules of the antifreeze protein is due to the maxi
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 m\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 um density of packing defects (Y = 100%) on the protein surface and hampers the water orientational reorganization required for ice nucleation.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Is there a case for selectively promiscuous anticancer drugs?
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2009\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{FERNANDEZ20091,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title =\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  "Is there a case for selectively promiscuous anticancer drugs?",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Drug Discovery Today",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "14",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "1",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "1 - 5",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2009",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "1359-6446",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drudis.2008.10.008",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http://www.sci\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 encedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359644608003747",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez and Alejandro Crespo and Abhinav Tiwari",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
abstract = "We critically survey the paradigms of molecularly targeted cancer therapy in light of systems-level observations on tumor robustness and resilience. Multipronged attacks covering various clinical fronts such as angiogenesis, apoptosis and canc
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
r progression, among others appear to be favored approaches at present, yet the enhancement of side effects has become a serious concern. In this regard, we argue that a departure from the yet untested single-target paradigm in favor of the notion of 
\hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 sel\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ctive nonselectivity\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 
 may be necessary, but will ultimately require a rational control of specificity to curb side effects. This control may be achieved by drug redesign guided by known selectivity-promoting molecular features."
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Cross-reactivities of ki\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
nase inhibitors arise because of the structural similarity of evolutionarily related (paralog) kinases. Yet, while paralogs share a similar structure, they are packed differently. If we compare the microenvironments of intramolecular hydrogen bonds aligne
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 across paralog structures, we notice that they are different: some hydrogen bonds are exposed to solvent in one kinase and completely shielded in another. Taking into account such local differences in packing quality [24], we are able to redesign a kinas
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  inhibitor because deficiently packed hydrogen bonds \hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506  the so-called dehydrons [28] \hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
 not only distinguish paralogs but they are sticky, hence targetable. Dehydrons are sticky because they promote their dehydration to enhance the underlying amide-carbonyl\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
electrostatic attraction [28].
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
Thus, a design strategy to achieve higher specificity emerges as we redesign inhibitors to turn them into protectors (wrappers) of dehydrons 24, 29, 30, 31, 32. Such wrapping designs enable paralog discrimination and hence l
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ead to drugs with controlled specificity 24, 29, 30, 31, 32. For example, the wrapping concept has been recently adopted to tackle the challenge of \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 cleaning\hich\f31506 \rquote 
\loch\f31506  staurosporine, the most promiscuous kinase inhibitor known [32]. Our wrapping-modified staurospo\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ine, targeting an EGFR dehydron with low level of conservation, binds only to 12% of the 220 kinases experimentally assayed by high-throughput screening [18]. This percentage of hits reveals a massive enhancement in selectivity, when compared with 90% for
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 staurosporine. Strikingly, our cross-reactivity prediction based on wrapping differences across targets is 95% accurate, when contrasted with the experimental results [32].

\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Another illustration of the power of the wrapping-based approach involved the rede\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
sign of the promiscuous inhibitor EKB-569 (Wyeth-Ayerst) that binds to 50 kinases [32]. The affinity screening of the dehydron-wrapping redesign agrees with the profile predicted based on dehydron conservation (95% of accuracy). Significantly, the redesig
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ed compound is more selective than the parental compound: out of the 220 kinases screened [18] it binds to 5 kinases, whereas EKB-569 binds to 19 [32]. Thus, these experimentally validated examples suggest that wrapping redesign can be further exploited t
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  obtain \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 selectively nonselective\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 
 inhibitors. The operational aspects of this strategy are described in detail as we focus on a problem of immediate clinical relevance: the need for the removal of sunitinib cardiotoxicity through a redesign of the parent
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 l compound.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
Guided by the wrapping concept 24, 29, 30, 31, 32, we may approach the reengineering of sunitinib to enhance its selectivity toward therapeutic targets while avoiding inhibiting AMPK and RSK. A comparison of the local packing of several suniti
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
nib targets through structure alignment led us to focus on a particular dehydron: the deficiently packed backbone hydrogen bond T83-Q99 in CAMK1G kinase (Fig. 1). This dehydron is conserved in all high-affinity targets relevant to angiogenesis and cancer-
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 c\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ell proliferation. Thus, it aligns with a dehydron in CAMK1D, CSF1R, EPHA2-3, KIT, FAK, SRC and VEGFR2 kinases. By contrast, it aligns with the well packed hydrogen bond K78-E94 in AMPK2 and with the well packed hydrogen bond T116-D132 in RSK. That is, th
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 differences in the packing of the region that aligns with dehydron T83-Q99 in CAMK1G (Fig. 1) enable discrimination between clinically relevant and cardiotoxicity-promoting targets 24, 29, 30, 31, 32.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This crucial packing difference suggests the modificat\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ion to sunitinib needed to remove its cardiotoxicity 24, 29, 30, 31, 32: the examination of the sunitinib/CAMK1G PDB-complex (Fig. 1) reveals that methylation at N1 in sunitinib's indol (Fig. 2) would turn the drug into a wrapper of dehydron T83-Q99. This
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
drug is likely to bind selectively to all clinically relevant targets because the latter contain a dehydron at the position that aligns with T83-Q99 in CAMK1G. By contrast, this wrapping modification will produce a steric clash upon association with kinas
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s RSK and AMPK2.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Kinase packing defects as drug targets
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Crespo2007\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{CRESPO2007917,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = "Kinase packing defects as drug targets",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Drug Discovery Today",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "12",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "21",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "917 - 923",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2007",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "13\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 59-6446",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drudis.2007.09.009",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1359644607004011",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Alejandro Crespo and Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = "Protein kinases constitute major targets in molecular c\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ancer therapy. The structural conservation of kinases causes specificity problems in most drug inhibitors, often resulting in dangerous side effects. Here we survey recent approaches in drug design that exploit a molecular marker for specificity: the patt
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
rn of packing defects. These packing defects are solvent-exposed intramolecular hydrogen bonds that may be protected by drugs upon association. In this light, we review design strategies to achieve paralogue discrimination, to control cross reactivity and
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to overcome drug resistance induced by target mutations."
\par \}
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
Recent progress along these lines is marked by the identification of a molecular marker for specificity: the packing defects in soluble proteins 24, 25, 26, 27. These defects consist of solvent-exposed backbone hydrogen bonds and are targetable features b
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
cause of their inherent stickiness [25]. One most useful property from the perspective of drug design is their lack of conservation across proteins with common ancestry 7, 28. They are indicators of protein interactivity and constitute a determinant facto
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 for macromolecular recognition 29, 30, 31, 32, 33. They are termed dehydrons 24, 25, 26, 27, since they promote their own dehydration as a mean to strengthen and stabilize the underlying electrostatic interaction. Thus, targeting these features by turnin
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 g\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  drugs into protectors or \hich\f31506 \lquote \loch\f31506 wrappers\hich\f31506 \rquote \loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
 (water-excluders) of packing defects 34, 35 may control cross reactivity. The concept of drug-as-wrapper was initially introduced by Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez et al.[34], when packing defects were exploited to design novel HIV-1-integ
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ase inhibitors and rationalize the binding mode of existing HIV-1-protease inhibitors.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In this work we survey the molecular design strategies to engineer drugs that act as dehydron wrappers. Decisive insilico, invitro and invivo validation of the wrapping\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 concept is surveyed 36, 37. Finally, we propose a molecular-design exercise as potential application of the dehydron-targeting principle: the differentiation of the close paralogues IGF1R and INSR kinases.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Packing defects in protein structure
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons c\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
onstitute packing defects since they are identified by a dearth of nonpolar groups from the amino acid side chains in the spatial vicinity of a backbone hydrogen bond 24, 25, 26, 27. They are defined in terms of the effect on the dielectric environment du
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 to the approach of a nonpolar group or wrapper 24, 25, 26, 27. Solvent-exposed hydrogen bonds become strengthened and stabilized by the approach of a hydrophobic group, as in the case where a drug ligand binds to a protein. Thus, because of their propens
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ty to attract nonpolar groups, or exclude water molecules, dehydrons constitute sticky spots that promote their own further dehydration 24, 25, 26, 27.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Rigorously speaking, the term wrapping alludes to a clustering of hydrophobic groups framing an anhydro}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 
us microenvironment for an intramolecular backbone hydrogen bond within the structure of a soluble protein 24, 25, 26, 27. The extent of intramolecular hydrogen-bond desolvation, \'f1\loch\f31571 
, may be quantified by determining the number of nonpolar groups (carbonace\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 o\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 
us, not covalently bonded to an electrophilic atom) contained within a desolvation domain. The desolvation domain is defined as two intersecting balls (Figure 2) of fixed radius centered at the \'e1\loch\f31571 
-carbons of the residues paired by the backbone hydrogen bon\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 d}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
. The statistics of hydrogen-bond wrapping vary according to the desolvation radius adopted, but the tails of the distribution invariably single out the same dehydrons in a given structure over a 6\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 7 \'c5
\loch\f31506  radius range, a length scale that represents the thic\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 k}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 
ness of three water layers. In folds for soluble proteins at least two-thirds of the backbone hydrogen bonds are wrapped on average by \'f1\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  = 26.6 \'b1\loch\f31571  7.5 nonpolar groups for desolvation radius of 6.2 }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \loch\af31506\dbch\af31505\hich\f31506 \'c5\loch\f31506 . Dehydrons are then defined as hydrogen bonds whose extent}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 
\hich\f31571  of wrapping lies in the tail of the distribution, that is with 19 or fewer hydrophobic groups in their desolvation domains, so their \'f1\loch\f31571 -value is below the mean, minus one Gaussian dispersion.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Figure 2. Dehydron concept. Intramolecular backbone hydrogen bon}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 
\hich\f31571 ds in target proteins (green bond) prevail only if protected from water attack. Their extent of intramolecular wrapping, \'f1\loch\f31571 
, is defined by counting the nonpolar groups (carbonaceous atoms, cyan) contained within the desolvation domain (grey spheres). Poorl\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 y}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506  wrapped hydrogen bonds (dehydrons) are defined with 19 or fewer hydrophobic groups in their desolvation domains (desolvation radius of 6.2 \'c5\loch\f31506 
). These packing defects consist of solvent-exposed backbone hydrogen bonds and are targetable features because of\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
their inherent stickiness, since they promote the removal of surrounding water molecules as a mean to strengthen and stabilize the underlying electrostatic interaction.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons are invariant across complexes of the same protein with different ligands an\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
d invariant across different crystallization forms, except in cases where the different ligands produce different induced fits. Thus, owing to the high conformational plasticity of kinases [16], targeting dehydrons in induced fits or flexible regions (act
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
vation loop, P-loop, catalytic loop) requires performing molecular dynamic (MD) simulations to identify the binding mode of the ligand. On the contrary, the effect of structural fluctuations on the persistence of dehydrons has been addressed through long 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 M\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 D simulations 36, 37.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
A shortcoming in the engineering of selective drugs geared at wrapping nonconserved packing defects arises from the need for structural information on the targets. In addressing this problem, we note that comparing the wrapping patte
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
rn of targets of common ancestry is actually feasible, even in the absence of structure. This is so, since a surrogate for dehydrons, reliably predicted from sequence, may be used to infer the wrapping patterns that can be subsequently aligned using homol
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
gy threading [7]. Thus, a sequence-based disorder score, measuring the propensity for inherent disorder of the peptide chain [28] correlates with the wrapping of individual residues engaged in backbone hydrogen bonds, with dehydrons belonging to the twili
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 g\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ht region between order and disorder [38]. The disorder score has been used to predict dehydrons for all tyrosine kinases, even those with unreported structure and the predictions on cross reactivity resulting thereof have been validated against high-thro
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ghput screening data [7]. This dehydron predictor based on the disorder score is operational only for homologues likely to possess high structure similarity with PDB reported proteins, as in the case of the kinase superfamily.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Targeting nonconserved kinas\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e packing defects
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Specificity and promiscuity in the druggable kinome
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In a recent bioinformatics contribution [7], it has been demonstrated that there is a relationship between the pharmacological differences between kinases against a background of availab
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
le drugs and the differences between their respective patterns of packing defects. To compare the dehydron patterns from different kinases, a common region was introduced for the aligned target structures. In this way, all kinases were compared within a r
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
gion defined by alignment of all residues framing the desolvation domains of dehydrons that, in turn, are environmentally affected by ligands in PDB-reported complexes. Within this framework of comparison, an environmental or wrapping distance between kin
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ses i and j was obtained by contrasting their aligned hydrogen-bond environments that compare local dehydration propensities associated with dehydrons patterns in kinase pairs. The environmental distance matrix was obtained across the 119 kinases for whic
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 h\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 drug-affinity fingerprinting was experimentally and independently obtained [6]. This distance matrix has been contrasted with a pharmacological distance matrix assessing similarities in the affinity profiling of kinases. Nineteen inhibitors were selected
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
from a pool of 20 that have been assayed for cross reactivity against the set of 119 kinases [6]. The highly promiscuous ligand staurosporine has been excluded since it is not pharmacologically relevant [23]. The pharmacological matrix was obtained by com
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 p}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 uting the Euclidean distance between ligand-affinity vectors in R19 with entries given in \u8722\'3f
\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 ln scale (or dimensionless \'c4\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 G/RT units; \'c4\loch\f31571 G, Gibbs free energy of binding; R, gas constant; T, temperature).
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A strong correlation (R2 = 0.917) was established betwee\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
n the environmental and pharmacological distance for each pair of kinases fingerprinted for affinity against a background of 19 drugs [7]. This correlation reveals that the pattern of packing defects is an operational selectivity filter for drug design, e
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 v\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
en though individual drugs were not purposely designed to wrap packing defects: pharmacological differences are essentially dictated by packing differences among targets. Thus, we can take advantage of this hitherto overlooked design feature to simplify t
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 h\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e drug development effort and rationally enhance selectivity towards clinically significant targets.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Turning a promiscuous drug into a paralogue discriminator
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The feasibility of achieving specificity by designing a wrapping drug has been tested experiment\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ally 23, 35, 36, 37. A preliminary effort was geared at re-designing commercially available inhibitors to discriminate paralogue kinases. This endeavour started with the introduction of wrapping modifications in imatinib to enhance its specificity towards
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
its primary target, the Abelson kinase (Abl) [35]. The nonconserved dehydrons Q300-E316, G249-Q252 in Abl were selectively targeted by a suitable wrapping modification of imatinib, sculpting into the ligand the dehydration hot spots of the kinase.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In a mo\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
re stringent test [23], staurosporine, the most promiscuous kinase ligand available [6] was re-engineered to elicit a selective inhibitory impact. Four PDB-reported staurosporine-binding kinases were chosen: Src kinase (PDB.1BYG), CDK2 (PDB.1AQ1), Chk1 (P
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 D\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
B.1NVR) and PDK1 (PDB.1OKY). A wrapping analysis revealed that only the Src kinase possesses a targetable nonconserved dehydron (Q250-E267) that may be wrapped by specific methylation of staurosporine at the imide N6-position of the indole ring (Figure 3a
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 )\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
. Upon structural alignment, the Src Q250-E267 dehydron maps into well-wrapped backbone hydrogen bonds: K65-E81 in CDK2, K69-E85 in Chk1 and K144-S160 in PDK1 (Figure 3a) [23]. Thus, selectivity for Src kinase may be achieved by re-designing staurosporine
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
to turn it into a wrapper of the Q250-E267 dehydron. The inhibition of Src by the staurosporine derivative improved when compared with staurosporine levels, and its impact became selective for Src to the extent expected from the limited set of targets ana
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 l\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 yzed [23]. These results demonstrate that the packing differences across paralogues may guide molecular design to significantly enhance specificity.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  Contrary to the vast majority of kinases that have a threonine in the gatekeeper position, both IGF1R and\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 INSR kinases have a methionine gatekeeper residue, increasing the likelihood of cross reactivity. Nevertheless, differences arise in their dehydron patterns: there is a dehydron in IGF1R (N1110-D1123) that is not conserved in the INSR kinase (Figure 3d).
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
This dehydron involves the highly conserved aspartate from the DFG catalytic triad located in the activation loop and does not align with any dehydron or well-wrapped hydrogen bond in the INSR kinase (D1150). Thus, to gain selectivity, our wrapping design
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dictates that a purported ligand should target the N1110-D1123 dehydron in IGF1R kinase.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Conclusions
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
Wrapping design holds promise as a new paradigm for rational development of drugs that exclude water around accessible hydrogen bonds of the protein target. This concept represents a departure from the standard approach that focuses on promoting pairwise 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ntermolecular interactions. It not only uses wrapping design a novel modality of ligand association, but also guides modifications to existing ligands, in contrast to a combinatorial search strategy.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Using commercially available ligands and drug inhibitor\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
s as lead compounds, we are able to introduce a variety of wrapping modifications and test them on cell lines and animal models for enhanced specificity and anticancer activity. On the basis of a trustworthy structural context, the wrapping re-design shou
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 l\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d be focused on lead compounds that fulfil the following two conditions:
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (a)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Cross reactivity must have been independently assessed by profiling the inhibitor for its affinity against a significant number of kinases.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (b)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The complexation of the inhibitor \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
with a selected target protein is structurally reported in the PDB so that the nonconserved packing defects in the target may be identified with full certainty.
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A shortcoming in engineering drugs that wrap protein-packing defects arises because a reliabl\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
e identification of such defects requires three-dimensional structures of the protein target. This is a difficult problem for kinases, since they possess flexible motifs around the ATP-pocket [16], prone to adopt induced fits that can only be safely deter
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 m\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ined from spectroscopic data. Thus, to design drugs that wrap dehydrons within the protein flexible regions, a representative ensemble of crystal structures for kinase/ligand induced-fits is required [13].
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The nonconserved wrapping of conserved protein f\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 olds reveals a trend toward increasing connectivity in proteomic networks
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2004\}
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article \{Fern\{\\'a\}ndez2823,
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 author = \{Fern\{\\'a\}ndez, Ariel and Scott, Ridgway and Berry, R. Stephen\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = \{The nonconserved wrapping of conserved protein folds\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  reveals a trend toward increasing connectivity in proteomic networks\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = \{101\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = \{9\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = \{2823--2827\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = \{2004\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = \{10.1073/pnas.0308295100\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 publisher = \{National Academy of Sciences\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = \{Although protein fold\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ing domains are generally conserved for function across distant homologous sequences, one crucial structural feature is not conserved: the wrapping of backbone hydrogen bonds, that is, the extent to which they are intramolecularly desolvated and thereby p
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
otected from water attack. Extensive data on protein complex interfaces led us to postulate that insufficiently wrapped backbone hydrogen bonds in monomeric domains must be adhesive, and therefore determinants of interactivity, a result that has been expe
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
imentally confirmed. Here, we show that the wrapping of certain conserved folds becomes progressively poorer as species diverge in some lineages. This trend is thus concurrent with a progressive enhancement of the interactivity of individual domains shari
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 g the conserved fold. Such increase in interactivity is predicted to impose an \{\\textquotedblleft\}evolutionary brake\{\\textquotedblright\}
 on the overall speed of sequence divergence. This phenomenon follows when more and more residues become engaged in pro\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ein associations and thus become functionally indispensable. For complete proteomes for which statistically significant structural data are available, scale-free network statistics based solely on the distribution of folding domains, catalogued by their n
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
mber of wrapping defects, best describe the proteomic connectivity. Thus, the intermolecular connectivity may be effectively used as a measure of species complexity. Our results might contribute to explaining how interactome complexity may be achieved wit
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 h\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 out a dramatic increase in genome size.\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = \{0027-8424\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 URL = \{http://www.pnas.org/content/101/9/2823\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 eprint = \{http://www.pnas.org/content/101/9/2823.full.pdf\},
\par \tab \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = \{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\}
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Although protein folding domains are generally conserved for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 function across distant homologous sequences, one crucial structural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 feature is not conserved: the wrapping of backbone hydrogen
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 bo\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 nds, that is, the extent to which they are intramolecularly
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 desolvated and thereby protected from water attack. Extensive
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 data on protein complex interfaces led us to postulate that insufficiently
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 wrapped backbone hydrogen bonds in monomeric domains
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 must b\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e adhesive, and therefore determinants of interactivity,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a result that has been experimentally confirmed. Here, we
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 show that the wrapping of certain conserved folds becomes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 progressively poorer as species diverge in some lineages. This
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 trend is thus concur\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rent with a progressive enhancement of the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity of individual domains sharing the conserved fold.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Such increase in interactivity is predicted to impose an \hich\f31506 \lquote \lquote \loch\f31506 evolutionary
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 brake\hich\f31506 \rquote \rquote \loch\f31506  on the overall speed of sequence divergence. This
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 phenomenon follows \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 when more and more residues become
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 engaged in protein associations and thus become functionally
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 indispensable. For complete proteomes for which statistically significant
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structural data are available, scale-free network statistics
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 based solely on the distr\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ibution of folding domains, catalogued by
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 their number of wrapping defects, best describe the proteomic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 connectivity. Thus, the intermolecular connectivity may be effectively
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 used as a measure of species complexity. Our results might
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 contribute to explaini\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ng how interactome complexity may be
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 achieved without a dramatic increase in genome size.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A paradigmatic discovery links protein fold and biological
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 function: the conservation of the fold across distant homologous
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 sequences (1, 2). However, not all structural features are
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 preserved, and in particular, a crucial factor defining protein
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity is not conserved. This article describes this phenomen\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and its consequences for the evolution of proteomic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 connectivity. Specifically, we address the question: Are there
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 gene-encoded signals of structure that determine lower or higher
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity as the same fold is examined across species?
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 We recently in\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 troduced an indicator of protein interactivity,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the underdehydrated or underwrapped hydrogen bond (3\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 9),
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 recently termed dehydron (7), which is encoded in the 3D
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structure of protein folded domains. Dehydrons are sites of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structural vulnerabilities resulti\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ng from incomplete wrapping or
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 intramolecular desolvation of backbone hydrogen bonds (7\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 9);
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 they have been previously shown statistically (5) and experimentally
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (6, 8) to signal adhesive sites, potentially determinant of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 protein associations. A sys\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tematic mining of such signals
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is used here to identify patterns of proteomic connectivity.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 By examining folds conserved for function across species we
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 found significant differences in the number and distribution of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydrons. Within a conserved fold, the \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of dehydrons in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 higher eukaryotes is consistently greater than in species of lower
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complexity. This finding indicates a higher interactivity because,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 as shown here, domain connectivity is proportional to the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 average number of dehydrons in the family\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 . Furthermore, the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydron patterns associated with structural domains for a given
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 species consistently define a scale-free interaction network for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the species proteomes.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The biological complexity of higher eukaryotes does not result
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 from their genome or even the estimated transcriptome sizes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (10\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 12). Furthermore, the combinatorial multiplicity arising
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 from domain shuffling cannot properly account for qualitative
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 differences in power-law descriptions of proteomic connectivity
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (10). Thi\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s statement refers to an underlying picture in which
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactions between protein domains are mapped as connections
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on a network, where each domain is represented as a node,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and highly connected nodes are scarce, whereas nodes with few
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 connections are comm\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on, as fitted by a power-law distribution.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Methods
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The extent of intramolecular hydrogen-bond desolvation in a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 monomeric structure may be quantified by determining the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of hydrophobic carbonaceous groups (CHn, n \'01 1, 2, or
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 3) within a desolvation dom\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ain typically defined as two intersecting
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 balls of fixed radius centered at the \'01-carbons of the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrogen-bonded residues (3\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 9). The details of these calculations
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 have been extensively discussed (3\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 9) and thus only need
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to be sketched here. The precise sta\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tistics of hydrogen-bond
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 wrapping vary according to the desolvation radius adopted, but
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the tails of the distribution single out the same dehydrons in a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 given structure over a 6.0- to 7.4-\'c5\loch\f31506  range in the adopted
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 desolvation radius. In this work the value 6.\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 4 \'c5\loch\f31506  was adopted.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In most [92% of Protein Data Bank (PDB) entries] stable
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein folds, the backbone hydrogen bonds are on average
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 wrapped by  \'01 18.7  5.9 hydrophobic groups (or 15.0  3.7
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 if we count only side-chain groups and exclude those from the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrog\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 en-bonded residue pair, as indicated in ref. 3). The sole
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 exception to these statistics are certain cellular prion proteins
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (9), with average wrapping as low as  \'01 11.70 (Table 1), and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 some neurotoxins held together by a profusion of disulfide
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 bridges (5, 9). Dehydrons are then defined as hydrogen bonds in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the tails of the distribution, i.e., with \'0412 hydrophobic groups in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 their desolvation domains. Because there is a considerable
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 thermo\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dynamic advantage associated with the removal of water
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 surrounding dehydrons, such bonds have been identified, together
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 with the overexposed hydrophobic groups that attach to
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the dehydrons, as determinants of protein binding sites, conferring
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 specificity t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o protein interactions. They are virtually ubiquitous
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 factors, occurring as points of contact in 38% of the PDB
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complexes. For those complexes, the density of dehydrons at the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 protein interface is \'051.5 times the average density for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 individual monom\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 eric partners. Furthermore, dehydrons con
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 stitute a significant factor (interface dehydron density larger
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 than average) in 92.9% of all PDB complexes (5).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The desolvation spheres could alternatively be defined as
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 centered at N and O, the hydrogen-bond hea\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 vy atoms; this is not
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the criterion adopted here. Defined in terms of N and O, their
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 78% overlap and the geometric hindrance associated with bringing
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a third residue side chain to proximity with the backbone
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 makes the statistics less revealing: most hydrog\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 en bonds appear
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 nearly equally protected, by 8\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 11 nonpolar groups.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Results
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons as Determinants of Proteomic Connectivity. Now we are
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in a position to answer the question posed at the outset: there is
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 at least one kind of structural characteristic tha\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t does seem to
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 change in a recognizable, somewhat systematic way in interspecies
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 comparisons. Although folds are generally preserved for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 function, we find vast differences in the way conserved folds pack
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 their backbone hydrogen bonds. Within a conserved domain
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 fold, the number of dehydrons in higher eukaryotes is consistently
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 greater than in, say, bacteria, and appears to be a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 consistent si\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 gnature of the species complexity. Because dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 have been found to be adhesive and to determine binding
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 sites (3\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 6) (further validation of this result will be given in this
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 work) they will be used here to assess proteomic interactivity.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Furthermore, t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 he defects in the packing of structural domains
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 within a given species will be shown to consistently determine a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 characteristic exponent that describes the node distribution
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 within a scale-free interaction network (13\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 15).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The extent of intramolecular hydr\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ogen-bond protection within
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a monomeric structure is quantified as described in Methods.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 With the desolvation-sphere radius fixed at 6.4 \'c5\loch\f31506 , the parameter
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  unambiguously determines the extent of underwrapping (
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'04 12) that makes a hydrogen bond a dehydron.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 F\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rom a proteomics perspective, the role of dehydrons as
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 determinants of interactivity is clearly validated. Fig. 1 shows a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 correlation between the number of dehydrons in all monomeric
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 PDB domains from the yeast proteome and the number of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interacting partner\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s of such domains, inferred from large-scale
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 two-hybrid experiments, deposited in the Database of Interacting
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Proteins (DIP) (16), a unique database derived from the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 yeast proteome. The correlation is statistically significant, with
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 correlation coefficient\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  0.88 and dispersion 0.29. The DIP is
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 unlikely to report binding partnerships exhaustively. Despite
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 these shortcomings, the correlation clearly argues for dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 as markers for interactivity.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons are not in vitro artifacts (7) and, on the other hand,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 it is unlikely that underwrapped structure would prevail in vivo:
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the preservation of the structural integrity of functional proteins
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 requires intermolecular contacts to prevent water attack \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrogen bonds. Unfortunately, no database of in vivo protein
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 associations seems to exist at present.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydron Patterns Across Species. We noticed (Table 1) that when
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the same folding domain within a protein family is examined
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 across different speci\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 es, there are marked nontrivial differences
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in the percentage ratio r \'01 rd/HB of dehydrons to backbone
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrogen bonds. Thus, for instance, the Src homology 3 (SH3)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 domain in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (pdb.3sem) has
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 an r of 3.2% dehydrons in contr\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ast with 16.6% in the human SH3
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 domain (pdb.5hck) (Fig. 2 a and b). Because dehydrons determine
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein interactivity, this difference suggests a far more
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complex signal-transduction network in the latter species. Likewise,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on the same basis, the human ubi\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 quitin (pdb.1ubi, r \'01 18.7)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is more interactive than its Escherichia coli counterpart
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (pdb.1foz, r \'01 10.2) (Fig. 2 c and d).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fig. 1. Correlation between the number of dehydrons of a given domain
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 fold averaged over all proteins in the domain and its number \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 of Database of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Interacting Proteins (DIP)-reported interactive partners. The domains are
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 binned according to their number of interactive partners and, given a fixed
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of partners, they are subsequently grouped according to the abundance
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 of PDB protein\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s in each domain. Each domain has an associated (averaged)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of dehydrons. Thus, black squares correspond to domains with
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'0520 proteins; dark gray squares correspond to domains containing between
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 10 and 21 proteins; light gray squares correspond to dom\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ains between 5 and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 11 proteins; and empty squares indicate domains with \'046 representatives.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The correlation is significant, with a correlation coefficient of 0.88 and dispersion
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 0.29.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fig. 2. Illustrative comparative analysis of the packing of backbone hydrogen
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 bonds for the same domains in different species. The dehydrons are
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 indicated as green \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 segments joining \'01-carbons, properly desolvated backbone
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrogen bonds are shown as gray segments, and the backbone conformation
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is displayed as a blue virtual-bond polygonal joining \'01-carbons. SH3 domains
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 are from nematode C. elegans (pdb.3sem) (a) and H\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 . sapiens (pdb.5hck) (b);
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ubiquitin is from E. coli (pdb.1foz) (c) and H. sapiens (pdb.1ubi) (d); and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hemoglobin is from Paramecium (pdb.1dlw) (e) and H. sapiens -subunit
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (pdb.1bz0, chain B) (f).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 Ferna\'b4\loch\f31506 ndez et al. PNAS  March 2, 2004  vol. 101  no. 9  2825
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 CHEMISTRY BIOCHEMISTRY
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Even within the relatively noninteractive hemoglobin domain
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 there are significant differences: the paramecium \hich\f31506 \lquote \lquote \loch\f31506 hemoglobin\hich\f31506 \rquote \rquote 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (pdb.1 dlw) is a perfect desolvator of its hydrogen bonds (r \'01 0),
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and is monomeric in vivo. The analogous-\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 fold hemoglobin
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 -subunit (pdb.1bz0, r \'01 2.9) in humans possesses three dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (Fig. 2 e and f) and occurs as a tetramer. Between these
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is the dimeric hemoglobin of mollusks. Within the natural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactive context of the human Hb subunit, the dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ignal crucial binding sites: dehydrons (90,94), (90,95) are associated
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 with the -FG corner involved in the quaternary \'0112
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interface, whereas dehydron (5,9) is adjacent to Glu-6, which in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 sickle cell anemia mutates to Val-6, and is located at the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 pr\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 otein Glu-6-(Phe-85, Leu-88) interface in the deoxyHbS
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 fiber (17).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fig. 2 and Table 1 suggest that as more complex species
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 diverge, the conserved fold associated with a given function
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 becomes more interactive. We thus predict that a \hich\f31506 \lquote \lquote \loch\f31506 brake\hich\f31506 \rquote \rquote \loch\f31506  must
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 apply to the sequence evolutionary speed caused by the increasing
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of binding-related residues (cf. refs. 1 and 2).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 As dehydrons occur in diverging species, they turn the hydrogen-bonded
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 residues into potential interactors and thus are likely
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to be conserved.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons and Proteomic Networks. The broad separation in the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 extent of hydrogen-bond protection for different structural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 domains shown in Table 1 suggests the need to correlate the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity of structural families [or Structural Classification of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Proteins (SCOP) superfamilies] (18, 19) with their average r value
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 determined over all representative domains in the family reported
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in the PDB. Interactivity is here defined based on a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structural criterion, i.e., by the concurrence of different domains
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in PDB protein complexes.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Although we are constrained to adopt a structural database to
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 compute the average r, the number of connections \'04 of the family
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 may be inferred independently from \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a broader database such as
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 PFAM, which covers at least 65% of the present SWISSPROT
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 release (20). The parameter \'04 of a family can be inferred from
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a structural database by enumerating all of the partner families
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 that contain domains found in PDB entries to\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  be engaged in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complexation or intramolecular interaction, in the case of multidomain
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 proteins, with a domain in the given family (21\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 25).
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The strong correlation between the average ratio of dehydrons
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to well wrapped hydrogen bonds in a family and its para\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 meter \'04
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 is displayed in Fig. 3A for all of the families with domains
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 represented in the PDB. Although a family might be found in the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 PDB, its interactions might not be exhaustively reported in this
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 database (such families are indicated as gray squares) and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 connectivities need to be obtained from the broader nonstructural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 PFAM database. The families whose interactions were
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 exhaustively explored in the PDB correspond to the dark squares
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in Fig. 3A.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Of \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the 831 SCOP families interrogated, many share identical
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (\'08r\tab , \'04) points in the plot displayed in Fig. 3A, albeit with different
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r dispersions. The error bars on the ordinates represent the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dispersion in the r ratios across all members of each family
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 subse\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 quently averaged over all families partaking the same (\'08r\tab ,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'04) point. The actual statistics of the abundance of families
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 grouped according to \'08r\tab  values is reported below. Although r
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 values are computed on individual proteins and then averaged
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 over a given\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  family to obtain the \'08r\tab  parameter, the interactivity
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'04 is only an attribute of the family as a whole, as it arises by
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interrogating individual PDB complexes and determining the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 concurrence of protein domains from different families. A strong
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 proportional\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ity (correlation parameter: 0.92; dispersion: 0.10%)
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 exists between the average ratio r and the connectivity parameter
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'04 for those families whose interactivity is properly represented in
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the PDB (in such cases, the \'04 value has been found to coincide
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 with t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hat obtained from the PFAM database). The linear correlation
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 encompasses highly interactive (\'04 \'05 20) Ig and P-loop
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 NTP hydrolase families (SCOP ID nos. 2.2.1 and 3.30.1, respectively),
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 middle-interactive families (6 \'04 \'04 \'05 20), such as the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 serine proteases,\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  Rossman domains, kinases, and signaltransduction
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 SH2 domain (SCOP 1.48 ID nos. 2.41.1, 3.2.1, 4.117.1,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and 4.72.1, respectively) and even all of the sparsely interactive
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 743 families with \'04 in the range 1 \'05 \'04 \'05 6.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This correlation is meaningful only in a statistical sense and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 does not hold at the individual protein level for a number of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 reasons: (i) the interactivity at the molecular level is in general
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fig. 3. (A) Correlation between the average dehydron ratio and \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the connectivity
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'04 of SCOP families represented in the PDB. Of the 831 families
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interrogated, many share identical (\'08r\tab , \'04) points, albeit with different r
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dispersions. The error bars on the ordinates represent the dispersion in the r
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ratios across all mem\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 bers of each family subsequently averaged over all
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 families sharing the same (\'08r\tab , \'04) point. The connectivities of families marked
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 by solid squares were determined by examining PDB complexes where at least
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 one domain belongs to the family, and independentl\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 y from a nonstructural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 database (PFAM). The gray squares denote families with a well determined r
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ratio but whose connectivity is underreported in the PDB. They are located on
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the correlation line once their connectivity is independently determined from
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 nonstructural database (PFAM). The most interactive such family, with 8%
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydrons, is 1.115.1 whose PDB \'04 value is 4, but an independent nonstructural
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 assessment using PFAM gives \'04 \'01 7. (B) SCOP families distributed according
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to their average ratio \'08r\tab  of\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  dehydrons per 100 hydrogen bonds (HBs). The
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 quantity f \'01 f(\'08r\tab ), with f \'01 fraction of total number of families, gives
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the distribution here plotted in log\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 log scale. \'01\hich\f31506 , H. sapiens; \'8c\loch\f31506 , M. musculus;
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 E, E. coli.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 2826  www.pnas.org\'01cgi\'01doi\'0110.1073\'01pnas.030829\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 5100 Ferna\'b4\loch\f31506 ndez et al.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 underreported (see above); (ii) the cytosolic or cytoplasmic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 environment is a masking factor that affects the number of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydrons without bearing significantly on proteomic interactivity
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 (8); (iii) the spatial proximity of several de\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 hydrons within
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a single structure might tie them up to a single binding mode (5),
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 and (iv) even though an adhesive dehydron might arise on the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 protein surface, there is no guarantee that a proper geometric
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 match would exist for that region. Only further studies will reveal
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 specific implications for living organisms.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The \'04 value for the most underrepresented major interactive
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 family, the armadillo (ARM) repeat (SCOP ID no. 1.110.1), falls
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 along the proportion\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ality line when its connectivity is inferred
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 from the PFAM database. The same is true for some \'04 \'01 5 and
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 7 families, like 1.115.1 and 3.3.1, whose connections are underreported
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in the PDB. The fact that the Ig family has more
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity than would be ex\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pected on the basis of its average
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number of dehydrons (Fig. 3A) probably implies that it is using
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 binding sites in a relatively unselective way, although this idea
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 needs to be established by identifying complexes with different
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 partners using overlapping \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 binding sites.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Given that, as shown in Fig. 3A, the average number of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydrons per 100 hydrogen bonds in a given family, \'08r\tab , is a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 measure of its connectivity, we can determine the interactive
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complexity of a species by mapping the distribution of protein
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 families according to their average r value. Thus, Fig. 3B shows
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the fraction f \'01 f(\'08r\tab ) of the total number of families having on
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 average \'08r\tab  dehydrons per 100 backbone hydrogen bonds in their
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structural domains. The data are shown for three species chos\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 en
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 based on the number of family representatives in the PDB. The
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 species selection criterion adopted is that at least two-thirds of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 the SCOP families for the species must have enough representative
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 domains in the PDB so that the quantity \'08r\tab  becomes
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 statis\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tically significant (its dispersion over the family is smaller
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 than \'08r\tab \'012). Thus, the family distribution according to their
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 dehydron abundances for three species selected are shown in Fig.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 3B: Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, and E. coli.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The results displayed in a log\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 log plot reveal a scale-free
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 distribution (14, 24, 26) best approximated as f(\'08r\tab ) \'01 0.36\'08r\tab \'07\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \'06,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 with \'06 \'01 1.44 for H. sapiens (broadest distribution), \'06 \'01 1.49 for
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 M. musculus, and \'06 \'01 2.1 for E. coli. These results provide a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structurally based assessment of the modulation of proteomic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 interactivity across different species resulting from the dramatic
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 differences in the packing of conserved folds.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Discussion
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Although the protein fold is mostly conserved for function across
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 spec\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ies, genotypic variation brings about a variability in the
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 extent of molecular association needed to sustain the protein
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 structure. This variability arises from differences in the extent to
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 which intramolecular hydrogen bonds are shielded from water
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 attack\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 . Thus, as hydrogen bonds become less well wrapped
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 intramolecularly, the conserved fold becomes more interactive,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a trend observed as one examines species of increasing complexity.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 This result hinges on the fact that underwrapped hydrogen
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 bonds (dehydrons)\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  are inherently adhesive and their number
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 on a given domain increases with species complexity.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Whether such greater levels of complexation are adventitious
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 to certain functions or invariably inherent to their regulation
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 remains to be determined, but the in\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 crement in interactivity
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 must surely impose a slowdown in sequence variability that
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 deserves further study.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 A bewildering feature of higher organisms remains how
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 complex physiologies can be achieved without a dramatic increase
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 in genome size (the number of\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  genes in the human
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 genome proved to be deceptively low). Rice, for instance, has a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 relatively large genome, a mere order of magnitude smaller than
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 higher mammals while probably possessing a far less complex
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 physiology. On the other hand, most of the rice folds for specific
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 functional domains are considerably better wrapped than their
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 animal counterparts, as illustrated in Table 1. This trend cannot
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 b\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e statistically quantified at this point because of the dearth of
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 high-resolution domains from the rice proteome in the PDB.
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Nevertheless our results imply that the interactome determined
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 by the wrapping deficiencies in protein folds might represent a
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 meas\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ure of complexity, helping explain how complex physiologies
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 may be achieved without a significant increase in genome
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 size.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Functionality of Wrapping Defects in Soluble Proteins: What Cannot be Kept Dry Must be Conserved
\par \{\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Fernandez2004\}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 @article\{FERNAND\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 EZ2004477,
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 title = "Functionality of Wrapping Defects in Soluble Proteins: What Cannot be Kept Dry Must be Conserved",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 journal = "Journal of Molecular Biology",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 volume = "337",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 number = "2",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 pages = "477 - 483",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 year = "2004",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 issn = "0022-2836",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 doi = "ht\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 tps://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmb.2004.01.050",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 url = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022283604001226",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 author = "Ariel Fern\'e1\loch\f31506 ndez",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 keywords = "hydrogen bond, protein structure, molecular evolution, protein interactivity, wrapping",
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 abstract = "Soluble proteins preserve their structure only if a sufficient number of non-polar groups are clustered around the backbone hydrogen bonds, pro\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
tecting them from water attack. When these bonds are not properly wrapped or dehydrated intramolecularly, structural integrity can be preserved through binding partnerships. This is because insufficiently wrapped hydrogen bonds are inherently adhesive and
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 become better shielded upon protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
ligand association. Thus, we postulate that deficiently wrapped hydrogen bonds are functionally relevant. Two findings that support this conjecture are: (a) there is a statistically relevant linear correlation between t
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 h\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
e number of defects in a folding domain and its proteomic connectivity, obtained from large-scale two-hybrid experiments; (b) the residues paired by under-wrapped hydrogen bonds are highly conserved. The high mutational sensitivity of under-wrapped region
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 s\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 can be rationalized, since their structural integrity relies on their propensity to behave as binding sites, in turn, a consequence of their adhesiveness. Thus, the regions in soluble protein structure that cannot be kept dry in water tend to be conserve
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 ."
\par \}
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 1. Introduction
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
The structure of soluble proteins prevails provided their backbone hydrogen bonds are shielded from water attack, a building constraint often overlooked.1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 6., 7., 8. This protection requires that a sufficient number 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
of non-polar groups cluster around the hydrogen bonds.3., 4., 5., 6., 7., 8. When these bonds are not properly dehydrated intramolecularly, structural integrity becomes reliant on binding partnerships,4., 5., 6. in turn fostered by the adhesiveness of the
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 wrapping defects.7 Thus, we have recently introduced an indicator of protein interactivity, the under-dehydrated or under-wrapped hydrogen bond, now termed as dehydron.6
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Dehydrons arise as a structural motif in proteins as the microenvironments around hyd\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
rogen bonds of soluble proteins are systematically examined in an exhaustive PDB sample4 free from redundancies.9., 10. Dehydrons are structural deficiencies resulting from incomplete intramolecular dehydration of backbone hydrogen bonds3., 4., 5., 6., 7.
,\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
 8. and have been shown experimentally7 to signal adhesive sites. Their adhesiveness is grounded in the energetically favorable enhancement of the hydrogen bond electrostatics which results as surrounding water is displaced. This adhesiveness can also be 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
xplained thermodynamically, taking into account the destabilization of the non-bonded state which occurs as surrounding water is removed, a process that hinders the hydration of the exposed amide and carbonyl. Thus, soluble proteins preserve their structu
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 al integrity through a reliance on their interactive context,3., 4., 5., 6., 7., 8. required to keep the intramolecular hydrogen bonds \'93\loch\f31506 
\hich\f31506 dry in water\'94\loch\f31506 .11
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The relevance of intramolecular electrostatic pre-organization in protein associations and enzymatic a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ctivity has been emphasized by Warshel and co-workers.12., 13., 14. The free-energy cost of reorganizing intramolecular hydrogen bonds, being considerably higher than that associated with the reorganization of solvent or solvent\hich\f31506 \endash 
\loch\f31506 protein hydrogen bonds, im\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 p\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
oses a trend for stabilization of the pre-formed interactions.12., 13., 14. In our specific context, this trend translates with a tendency of dehydrons to seek further desolvation upon protein associations, which materializes as non-polar groups are dragg
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
d to their proximity. On the other hand, the work required to remove water molecules from the dehydron surroundings is minimal precisely because such water molecules have lost hydrogen bonding partnerships as needed to commit them to hydrate a partially p
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 otected amide\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
carbonyl pair.6 In simple terms, water surrounding dehydrons forms a thermodynamically unfavorable interface6 and thus becomes easily removable.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Since dehydrons are adhesive, it becomes natural to enquire whether they are functionally releva\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
nt. This issue is addressed here by showing that (a) the number of wrapping defects in a protein domain is statistically proportional to the number of interacting partners and (b) the conservation of wrapping defects across homologous proteins is signific
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
nt. Biological function might be an elusive attribute, but when considered together, both results support the functional significance of wrapping defects, as they stem from two very different perspectives on functionality, the physico-chemical and the evo
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 l\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 utionary.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 2. Results
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
To identify the dehydrons in a folding domain in the PDB, the extent of intramolecular desolvation of backbone hydrogen bonds in monomeric structure is quantified. The desolvation is assessed by determining the extent of wrapping of t
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
he hydrogen bond, a quantity obtained by determining the number of side-chain non-polar groups within a desolvation domain around the hydrogen bond (Methods).6 This assessment of the extent of desolvation is rather crude,6 but appropriate for a proteomic 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
nalysis like the one presented here, requiring massive data exploration. The non-polar groups (CH, CH2, and CH3) are comparable in size; so counting them without discrimination of relative size does not introduce a major distortion in the desolvation stat
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 i\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
stics.6 On the other hand, polar groups within the desolvation spheres need not be counted, as their presence invariably prevents non-polar groups from clustering around the hydrogen bond: they would hinder the hydration of the polar group. Thus, polar gr
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ups in the proximity of a backbone hydrogen bond mark the presence of a dehydron, which is in any case flagged by the scarcity of desolvators. This is precisely the reason why the polar residues with short side-chains, i.e. Asp, Asn, Ser and Thr are the w
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 o\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rst wrappers of backbone hydrogen bonds15 and thus exhibit a pronounced tendency to be at protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 ligand interfaces.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 The structurally reported proteins contained in the database of interacting proteins (DIP)16 were exhaustively investigated and the result\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ing statistics assayed by linear regression. A significant linear correlation is shown in Figure 1 between the number of dehydrons in all monomeric PDB domains from the yeast proteome and the number of interacting partners of such domains, inferred from l
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 rge-scale two-hybrid experiments.16 This result implies that dehydrons are vehicles of proteomic interactivity, and thus possibly of functional relevance.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Figure 1. Correlation between the number of dehydrons of a given folding domain averaged over all pr\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
oteins containing the same domain, and the number of DIP interacting partners of the domain. Domains are grouped according to their number of interacting partners and, given a fixed number of partners, they are subsequently grouped according to the abunda
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ce of PDB proteins sharing the domain. Each domain has an averaged number of dehydrons. Black squares denote domains with more than 20 proteins; dark grey squares, domains containing between ten and 21 proteins; light grey, domains between five and 11 pro
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
eins; and empty squares, domains with less than six representatives. The correlation obtained from linear regression analysis is significant, with a correlation coefficient of 0.88 and dispersion 0.29.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 To be sure, a more quantitative analysis, perhaps inv\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
olving the thermodynamic parameters of complexation affinity and correlating them with the extent of wrapping of pre-formed hydrogen bonds at the protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
protein interfaces would be desirable. However, this analysis cannot be carried out at present at a p\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
oteomic scale due to the scarcity of experimental data. Furthermore, the energetic parameters used to theoretically compute binding affinities require revision.3., 13., 14. This is partly due to the need to adapt the prevalent continuum mean-field treatme
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 n\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t of dielectric response at the molecular scales, where dipole correlations make it difficult to adopt a dielectric constant as a scalar attribute of a local environment.3

\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 Amino acid conservation at a particular position in a sequence evaluated across mul\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
tiply aligned sequences is often regarded as a decisive sign for the functional relevance of the residue.9 Thus, the conservation dissection of the sequence is here contrasted with the dehydron pattern of the corresponding structure. Our aim is to show th
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t structural regions which are not kept dehydrated in water are typically conserved across homologous proteins.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 As an illustration, we first focus on the ACBP, the acyl carrier-binding protein17 (PDB.1ACA), where the pattern of conserved residues was foun\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
d to be controversial.18., 19. As shown in Figure 2, while only 50% of the folding nucleus17., 18., 19. is conserved, about 95% of the residues paired by dehydrons were found to be conserved. Figure 2(c) reveals the amino acid variability at each residue 
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 p\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
osition on the primary sequence. The sequences aligned and used to determine the amino acid variability were obtained from PSI-BLAST20 and multiple alignment was performed using CLUSTAL W.21 The multiple alignment was performed using the 37 homologous seq
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 u}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 
ences found in SwissProt with at least 28% identity and mean pair-wise sequence identity of 44%. The Shannon information entropy \'f3\loch\f31571 (i) (Methods)22 was used to define the amino acid variability at position i along the protein chain.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 . Discussion
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In proteomi\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
c terms, Figure 1, Figure 4 taken together argue for a functional role of dehydrons, as they show them to be conserved and highly interactive regions. More quantitative tests, possibly correlating binding affinities13., 14. with the extent of intramolecul
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 r desolvation of pre-formed hydrogen bonds at the protein\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 
protein interface might be helpful. However, due to the relative scarcity of experimental data and the computational uncertainties at the nanoscales,3., 27. they cannot be carried out at this time \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 a
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 t the massive proteomic scales required to statistically assert biological facts.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
Figure 4 reveals that regions with relatively sparse secondary structure account for a high mutational sensitivity precisely because their structural integrity relies on marginal levels of wrapping. On the other hand, since such regions are adhesive7, and
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506  \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
furthermore interactive, as Figure 1 shows, their conservation should be in the end expected. This fact has been validated in recent work, corroborating the significance of dehydrons in protein binding.28 In plain terms, structured regions in soluble prot
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
ins that cannot be kept dry intramolecularly are statistically shown to involve fairly conserved residues. These facts argue for a functional role24., 25. of wrapping defects, as a selection constraint is clearly applied to preserve them.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 4. Methods
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 To id\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
entify the dehydrons in a folding domain in the PDB, the extent of intramolecular hydrogen bond desolvation in monomeric structure is quantified by determining the number of non-polar carbonaceous groups within a desolvation domain.6 This domain is define
\hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 d}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571  as two intersecting balls of fixed radius centered at the \'e1\loch\f31571 
-carbon atoms of the hydrogen bonded residues. The statistics of hydrogen bond wrapping vary according to the desolvation radius adopted, but the tails of the distribution invariably single out t\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 h}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 e same dehydrons in a given structure over a 6.0\hich\f31506 \endash \loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 7.4 \'c5\loch\f31506 \hich\f31506 
 range in the adopted desolvation radius. Here, the value of 6.6 \'c5\loch\f31506  was adopted throughout for consistency.
\par 
\par \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 In most (}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af34 \ltrch\fcs0 \f34\insrsid14754418 \loch\af34\dbch\af31505\hich\f34 \u8764\'7e}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 \hich\af31506\dbch\af31505\loch\f31506 
92% of PDB entries) stable protein folds, the backbone hydrogen bonds are wrapped, o}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \f31571\insrsid14754418 \hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 n average, by \'f1\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 =26.1(\'b1
\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 7.5) non-polar groups (or 14.0(\'b1\loch\f31571 
3.7) if we count only side-chain groups and exclude those from the hydrogen-bonded residue pair). Dehydrons are then defined as hydrogen bonds in the tails of the distribution, i.e. with less than 12 n\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 o
\hich\af31571\dbch\af31505\loch\f31571 \hich\f31571 n-polar groups in their desolvation domains (their \'f1\loch\f31571 -value is at most two Gaussian dispersions below the mean).
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14754418 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa160\sl259\slmult1\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af31507 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid13632668 
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb4ec3301045f748fc83e52d4a
9cb2400825e982c78ec7a27cc0c8992416c9d8b2a755fbf74cd25442a820166c2cd933f79e3be372bd1f07b5c3989ca74aaff2422b24eb1b475da5df374fd9ad
5689811a183c61a50f98f4babebc2837878049899a52a57be670674cb23d8e90721f90a4d2fa3802cb35762680fd800ecd7551dc18eb899138e3c943d7e503b6
b01d583deee5f99824e290b4ba3f364eac4a430883b3c092d4eca8f946c916422ecab927f52ea42b89a1cd59c254f919b0e85e6535d135a8de20f20b8c12c3b0
0c895fcf6720192de6bf3b9e89ecdbd6596cbcdd8eb28e7c365ecc4ec1ff1460f53fe813d3cc7f5b7f020000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6
a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4f
c7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b6309512
0f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462
a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f746865
6d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b
4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b
4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c9200000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f
7468656d65312e786d6cec59cd8b1bc915bf07f23f347d97f5d5ad8fc1f2a24fcfda33b6b164873dd648a5eef2547789aad28cc56208de532e81c026e49085bd
ed21842cecc22eb9e48f31d8249b3f22afaa5bdd5552c99e191c3061463074977eefd5afde7bf5de53d5ddcf5e26d4bbc05c1096f6fcfa9d9aefe174ce16248d
7afeb3d9a4d2f13d2151ba4094a5b8e76fb0f03fbbf7eb5fdd454732c609f6403e1547a8e7c752ae8eaa5531876124eeb0154ee1bb25e30992f0caa3ea82a34b
d09bd06aa3566b55134452df4b51026a1f2f97648ebd9952e9dfdb2a1f53784da5500373caa74a35b6243476715e5708b11143cabd0b447b3eccb3609733fc52
fa1e4542c2173dbfa6fffceabdbb5574940b517940d6909be8bf5c2e17589c37f49c3c3a2b260d823068f50bfd1a40e53e6edc1eb7c6ad429f06a0f91c569a71
b175b61bc320c71aa0ecd1a17bd41e35eb16ded0dfdce3dc0fd5c7c26b50a63fd8c34f2643b0a285d7a00c1feee1c3417730b2f56b50866fede1dbb5fe28685b
fa3528a6243ddf43d7c25673b85d6d0159327aec8477c360d26ee4ca4b144443115d6a8a254be5a1584bd00bc6270050408a24493db959e1259a43140f112567
9c7827248a21f056286502866b8ddaa4d684ffea13e827ed5174849121ad780113b137a4f87862cec94af6fc07a0d537206f7ffef9cdeb1fdfbcfee9cd575fbd
79fdf77c6eadca923b466964cafdf2dd1ffef3cd6fbd7ffff0ed2f5fff319b7a172f4cfcbbbffdeedd3ffef93ef5b0e2d2146ffff4fdbb1fbf7ffbe7dfffebaf
5f3bb4f7393a33e1339260e13dc297de5396c0021dfcf119bf9ec42c46c494e8a791402952b338f48f656ca11f6d10450edc00db767cce21d5b880f7d72f2cc2
d398af2571687c182716f094313a60dc6985876a2ec3ccb3751ab927e76b13f714a10bd7dc43945a5e1eaf579063894be530c616cd2714a5124538c5d253dfb1
738c1dabfb8210cbaea764ce99604be97d41bc01224e93ccc899154da5d03149c02f1b1741f0b7659bd3e7de8051d7aa47f8c246c2de40d4417e86a965c6fb68
2d51e252394309350d7e8264ec2239ddf0b9891b0b099e8e3065de78818570c93ce6b05ec3e90f21cdb8dd7e4a37898de4929cbb749e20c64ce4889d0f6394ac
5cd829496313fbb938871045de13265df05366ef10f50e7e40e941773f27d872f787b3c133c8b026a53240d4376beef0e57dccacf89d6ee8126157aae9f3c44a
b17d4e9cd131584756689f604cd1255a60ec3dfbdcc160c05696cd4bd20f62c82ac7d815580f901dabea3dc5027a25d5dcece7c91322ac909de2881de073bad9
493c1b9426881fd2fc08bc6eda7c0ca52e7105c0633a3f37818f08f480102f4ea33c16a0c308ee835a9fc4c82a60ea5db8e375c32dff5d658fc1be7c61d1b8c2
be04197c6d1948eca6cc7b6d3343d49aa00c9819822ec3956e41c4727f29a28aab165b3be596f6a62ddd00dd91d5f42424fd6007b4d3fb84ffbbde073a8cb77f
f9c6b10f3e4ebfe3566c25ab6b763a8792c9f14e7f7308b7dbd50c195f904fbfa919a175fa04431dd9cf58b73dcd6d4fe3ffdff73487f6f36d2773a8dfb8ed64
7ce8306e3b99fc70e5e3743265f3027d8d3af0c80e7af4b14f72f0d46749289dca0dc527421ffc08f83db398c0a092d3279eb838055cc5f0a8ca1c4c60e1228e
b48cc799fc0d91f134462b381daafb4a492472d591f0564cc0a1911e76ea5678ba4e4ed9223becacd7d5c16656590592e5782d2cc6e1a04a66e856bb3cc02bd4
6bb6913e68dd1250b2d721614c6693683a48b4b783ca48fa58178ce620a157f65158741d2c3a4afdd6557b2c805ae115f8c1edc1cff49e1f06200242701e07cd
f942f92973f5d6bbda991fd3d3878c69450034d8db08283ddd555c0f2e4fad2e0bb52b78da2261849b4d425b46377822869fc17974aad1abd0b8aeafbba54b2d
7aca147a3e08ad9246bbf33e1637f535c8ede6069a9a9982a6de65cf6f35430899395af5fc251c1ac363b282d811ea3717a211dcbccc25cf36fc4d32cb8a0b39
4222ce0cae934e960d122231f728497abe5a7ee1069aea1ca2b9d51b90103e59725d482b9f1a3970baed64bc5ce2b934dd6e8c284b67af90e1b35ce1fc568bdf
1cac24d91adc3d8d1797de195df3a708422c6cd795011744c0dd413db3e682c0655891c8caf8db294c79da356fa3740c65e388ae62945714339967709dca0b3a
faadb081f196af190c6a98242f8467912ab0a651ad6a5a548d8cc3c1aafb6121653923699635d3ca2aaa6abab39835c3b60cecd8f26645de60b53531e434b3c2
67a97b37e576b7b96ea74f28aa0418bcb09fa3ea5ea12018d4cac92c6a8af17e1a56393b1fb56bc776811fa07695226164fdd656ed8edd8a1ae19c0e066f54f9
416e376a6168b9ed2bb5a5f5adb979b1cdce5e40f2184197bba6526857c2c92e47d0104d754f92a50dd8222f65be35e0c95b73d2f3bfac85fd60d80887955a27
1c57826650ab74c27eb3d20fc3667d1cd66ba341e31514161927f530bbb19fc00506dde4f7f67a7cefee3ed9ded1dc99b3a4caf4dd7c5513d777f7f5c6e1bb7b
8f40d2f9b2d598749bdd41abd26df627956034e854bac3d6a0326a0ddba3c9681876ba9357be77a1c141bf390c5ae34ea5551f0e2b41aba6e877ba9576d068f4
8376bf330efaaff23606569ea58fdc16605ecdebde7f010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d65
2f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d36
3f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e
3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d985
0528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100e9de0fbfff0000001c020000130000000000000000000000
0000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00000000000000000000
000000300100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000000000000000000000000019020000
7468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100b6f4679893070000c92000001600000000000000
000000000000d60200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b01000027000000
000000000000000000009d0a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000980b00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax375\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef0\lsdunhideuseddef0\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 5;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index 9;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 header;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footer;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 index heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of figures;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 envelope return;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 footnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation reference;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 line number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 page number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote reference;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 endnote text;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 table of authorities;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 macro;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 toa heading;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Bullet 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Number 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Closing;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Signature;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 4;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 List Continue 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Message Header;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Salutation;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Date;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text First Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Note Heading;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Body Text Indent 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Block Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 FollowedHyperlink;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Document Map;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Plain Text;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 E-mail Signature;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Top of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Bottom of Form;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal (Web);\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Acronym;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Address;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Cite;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Code;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Definition;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Keyboard;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Preformatted;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Sample;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Typewriter;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 HTML Variable;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Normal Table;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 annotation subject;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 No List;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Outline List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 1;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Simple 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Classic 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Colorful 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 3;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Columns 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 4;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 5;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 6;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 7;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table List 8;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table 3D effects 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Contemporary;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Elegant;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Professional;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Subtle 2;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 2;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Web 3;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Balloon Text;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Table Theme;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;
\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;
\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;
\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;
\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;
\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;
\lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;
\lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;\lsdpriority41 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 1;\lsdpriority42 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 2;\lsdpriority43 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 3;\lsdpriority44 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 4;
\lsdpriority45 \lsdlocked0 Plain Table 5;\lsdpriority40 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table Light;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 1;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 2;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 3;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 3;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 3;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 4;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 4;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 4;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 5;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 3 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 4 Accent 6;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 Grid Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 1;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 1;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 1;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 1;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 1;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 1;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 1;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 2;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 2;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 2;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 2;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 2;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 2;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 3;
\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 3;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 3;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 3;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 3;
\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 3;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 4;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 4;
\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 4;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 4;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 4;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 4;
\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 4;\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 5;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 5;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 5;
\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 5;\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 5;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 5;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 5;
\lsdpriority46 \lsdlocked0 List Table 1 Light Accent 6;\lsdpriority47 \lsdlocked0 List Table 2 Accent 6;\lsdpriority48 \lsdlocked0 List Table 3 Accent 6;\lsdpriority49 \lsdlocked0 List Table 4 Accent 6;
\lsdpriority50 \lsdlocked0 List Table 5 Dark Accent 6;\lsdpriority51 \lsdlocked0 List Table 6 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdpriority52 \lsdlocked0 List Table 7 Colorful Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Mention;
\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Smart Hyperlink;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Hashtag;\lsdsemihidden1 \lsdunhideused1 \lsdlocked0 Unresolved Mention;}}{\*\datastore 010500000200000018000000
4d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e362e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffff0c6ad98892f1d411a65f0040963251e5000000000000000000000000005c
9ced5782d401feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}